.\" Copyright 2018 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH SECURELEVEL 8 2018-06-12 "Linux" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
securelevel \- view and change the system securelevel

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B securelevel
.RB [ " -v " ]
[ \fB\-f\fP \fIfilename\fP ]
.RB [ " level " ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Securelevel provides a convenient way to change operating system variables/settings to provide a greater degree of security. It provides a high level front end for modifying sysctl values and file contents, customizable via the
.BR securetab (5)
.PP
Securelevel provides seven different levels of security. The higher the level, the more security features are enabled. Once the securelevel has been raised, it can be lowered only by rebooting the system.
.TP
.B 0 - Disabled
- Securelevel will not attempt to modify any system variables
.TP
.B 1 - Light Mode
- Enable uninstrusive hardening features recommended by the Kernel Self Protection Project
.TP
.B 2 - Light Mode (Customizable)
- Identical to securelevel 1 by default
.br
- Reserved for customization by the local system administrator
.TP
.B 3 - Standard Mode
- All the effects of securelevel 1
.br
- Loading and unloading of kernel modules is disabled
.TP
.B 4 - Standard Mode (Customizable)
- Identical to securelevel 3 by default
.br
- Reserved for customization by the local system administrator
.TP
.B 5 - Pedantic Mode
- All the effects of securelevels 1 and 3
.br
- Disable ICMP redirects and source routing
.br
- Enable IP spoofing protection
.TP
.B 6 - Pedantic Mode (Customizable)
- Identical to securelevel 5 by default
.br
- Reserved for customization by the local system administrator

.PP
Valid Arguments:
.TP
\fB-f filename, --file filename\fR
Specifies a different file to use as the securetab.
.TP
\fB-v, --verbose\fR
Produce more verbose output.
.TP
\fBlevel\fR
The securelevel to change to. Valid levels are 1 through 6 inclusive. If this argument is omitted, then \fIsecurelevel\fP will print the current securelevel instead of changing it.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Scott Court (scott@cucumberlinux.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR securetab (5)
